RTCRemoteInboundRtpStreamStats - plus alignment with outbound (#32657)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/rtcremoteinboundrtpstreamstats/fractionlost/index.md

---
title: "RTCRemoteInboundRtpStreamStats: fractionLost property"
short-title: fractionLost
slug: Web/API/RTCRemoteInboundRtpStreamStats/fractionLost
page-type: web-api-instance-property
browser-compat: api.RTCStatsReport.type_remote-inbound-rtp.fractionLost
---

{{APIRef("WebRTC")}}

> The **`fractionLost`** property of the {{domxref("RTCRemoteInboundRtpStreamStats")}} dictionary provides the fraction packet loss for this [synchronization source (SSRC)](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCRemoteInboundRtpStreamStats/ssrc) in the last reporting interval.

Author: ```suggestion
The **`fractionLost`** property of the {{domxref("RTCRemoteInboundRtpStreamStats")}} dictionary provides the fraction of packets lost for this [synchronization source (SSRC)](/en-US/docs/Web/API/RTCRemoteInboundRtpStreamStats/ssrc) in the last reporting interval.
```

The value provides a quick and convenient measure of the link quality.
It is the packet loss as a fraction, scaled up by 256.
To convert to a percentage, divide by 256 and multiply by 100.
For example, a value of 20 would equal a 7.8% packet loss.

> Note that the packet loss can be negative if more packets are received than expected, and in this case the fraction is set to zero.

Author: Note that all of this is my "guess/evaluation" based on the RFC info and appending linked in the next section. All the spec says is that it is calculated as per those spec links. I have interpreted that to mean that the property contains the 8 bit unsigned integer in the RR/SR "fraction loss" field. That is calculated by 8 bit shifting a number so the fraction is now the number. 

It all sounds rational, but I can't prove it. I've tried a bunch of examples out and they all give me a value of zero :-( (which is what you get if there is no loss OR if the loss is negative).

## Value

A number indicating the fraction packet loss in the last reporting interval.

> The fraction packet loss comes from the 8-bit `fraction lost` field of the last SR or RR RTCP packet.

Author: I've expanded out what they are in the text, and also added links to spec in the See also section.

We should have an overview of the RTCP protocol somewhere that outlines these bits that we can link to. But it is something that probably should be done by someone as a complete overhaul.

It is calculated by dividing the expected packets by the packets received in the period since the last SR or RR packet was sent.
If the packet loss is negative the value is set to zero.
Otherwise the value is bit-shifted 8 bits.

> This has the effect of making the fractional part of the fraction packet loss into the 8 bit unsigned integer which is what is sent in the SR or RR packet and contained in this property.

Author: @wbamberg Good point. Thinking about this, the algorithm is interesting, but it isn't "needed" by a user. All you need to know is how to turn the value into a percentage or fractional value, and that the value is indicative, not precise.

The algorithm is also more complicated than this because it has to account for wrapping of values used to hold packet counts etc.

So what I have done simplified this and linked to the explanation of the algorithm,
